You can strengthen the existing protection on your site by specifying a content security policy.
It's an easy to be header in which you can specify the policy for certain content types on your site,
which simply means limit the origins from which you want to accept them.
For example, you can disable any scripts that are not coming from your own origin or from a list of
origins that you trust.
But the policy can contain much more than that.
You can set the policy also for fonts, frames, images, media objects and stylesheet, but also for
JavaScript workers example, HTP requests, web sockets, etc..
The content security policy is a powerful tool.
In the end, it may be a single line, but it's a mighty line and it needs quite a lot of effort and
lots of testing to ensure it doesn't do more harm than good.
But the biggest trouble of it is that it's relatively young standard, which means the browser support
is limited to recent browsers, and some useful features are still barely supported.
Generally don't expect it to work on iOS and early versions of AD anyway.
Using the content security policy doesn't mean you can stop protecting your sites from cross-site scripting
with all the techniques that we learned because it's not meant to be a single protection measure.
Also, depending on the complexity of your project, you may eventually need to hold the content security
policy implementation for now.
Well, let's see how it can look like.
It is not the simplest policy, but it shows a couple of general points.
Let's break it down.
We have set the policy for two content types images and fonts and the default policy for all other content
types that are not defined.
The default source is set to self in single quotes, which means everything that is not an image or
font must come from the site's origin.
The image source is the wild card subdomain of example dot com.
So images can come from w w w example dot com images dot example dot com, etc..
The font source is set to a list of two full URLs, which means fonts can only come from HTP as fonts.
Example dot com or htp s other fonts examples dot com.
Note how multiple origins are separated by space.
Unlike images, a non htp url will not be accepted in this case because we explicitly define the protocols.
The default source, image source, font source and others are called fetch directives.
Other fetch directives are created in a similar way.
Script Source Style Source Frame Source, media source, object, source, connect, source, etc..
I have listed only those with the widest browser support, but there are more.
How to implement the content security policy.
You can add the header in your HD access file or in peer to peer code.
As with all HTP headers in HD access, you need to use slightly modified syntax.
The directive must be presented with had there always set, there will be no column after the header
name and the Heather's value, which means the actual policy must be surrounded with double quotes.
In BHP, you can simply use the header function and the unmodified HTP header syntax.
For simplicity.
In all the examples, I will use the regular HTP header syntax like in the BGP implementation content
security policy column and the policy.
Fetch directives can have different types of values.
It can be a host, like we said, for images and fonts.
They can have wildcards be defined with or without protocol and with or without board.
So all these are valid.
It can also be a protocol followed by a colon.
In other words, you can set a content type to only be loaded via ATP as, for example, regardless
of a domain.
Or you can allow data to arise.
In this example, images can be loaded from any domain under SSL and also data.
Your eyes are allowed.
You can use a self keyword in single quotes, which always means current pages, origin, protocol,
domain and port.
For example, if you set the script source to self, any script that comes from another site like hidden,
but also any inline script will be killed.
However, if there's a Sydney or any other site that you trust, you can simply added to the policy.
Now these groups can be operated either from the sites, origin or issue types.
See the example dot com but from HTP see the an example dot com as we specified the protocol in policy.
Using the policy default source self will only allow resources coming from the same origin, including
scripts, fonts, images, media and all other resources and connections that CSP applies to.
So it is quite restrictive, it's very secure.
But many things can fail on your site.
In a similar way by using a non keyword in single quotes, you can disallow any resource of a certain
type from being used at all.
Now no fonts will be loaded regardless of where it is coming from, even from your own site's origin.
There is also a group of three similar values unsafe in line, unsafe crashes and unsafe evil.
They can be used to bypass the strict security of content security policy.
Unsafe in line will allow in line scripts, so it's an easy way to get around the inline scripts, which
you might be too lazy to put in external files.
But now the content security policy will not be protecting your sites from inline cross-site scripts.
There is a reason why these key words is prevented with the word unsafe.
To be precise.
This is what it allows in a scripts that is those placed inside script stack.
Inline even handlers that is, for example, on click on mouse over on error URLs starting with JavaScript
from colon and inline see us as styles.
So it's quite lose, isn't it?
Another option.
Unsafe hashes can be used to only allow inline event handlers.
But still, this allowed the rest, like inline scripts or styles.
This one, however, is only available in most recent versions of Edge and Chrome, so I wouldn't even
tried.
The list of unsafe is unsafe evil, which allows the use of a dangerous evil function and other expressions
in JavaScript that work in a similar way.
For example, set timeout and set interval.
When it comes to those functions.
This unsafe EVA directive only applies to situations in which you have a string of upgrades to evaluate
the code.
Like in the example.
Not that you don't need unsafe evil to be able to you set time out and set interval methods.
You just need to pass a function to them, not a string.
The interesting thing is that only by adding a default source or script source in your policy, all
inline scripts will be effectively disabled.
It means that most of the cross-site scripting attempts will now fail because the browser will block
them as untrusted.
And that's great.
But if you use inline scripts for legitimate purposes, those will be killed as well.
But let me give you a couple of examples.
How to get rid of inline scripts.
First reason why you might want to use inline scripts is to pass there some data from your backhand.
You can modify this code into ways to get rid of an inline script.
Either put the back end data in a data attribute of an element, and then in your external JavaScript
mind, just get the data attribute the value from the element that has it.
Or put the data as a JSON object as explained in aerial video.
Another reason that people use inline scripts is that those scripts are tiny and they believe there's
no point in using an external file, which is an additional ATP request.
These can be, for example, tracking codes that are only needed on certain pages, so are included
in the supposed templates rather than in the global script.
It's not how the app should be built in the ideal world, but it often happens.
And the performance problem is only partially true.
Another HTP request can make the page load a little bit slower on HTP 1.1.
But anyway, I would sacrifice that small performance kit for security.
However, if your server supports version two of the HTP protocol, you don't have to sacrifice anything.
Adding another request will have no impact on performance at all because HTP too can reuse connections
between browser and server and the number of requests does not hurt the performance anymore.
Note that to use HTP to your site needs SSL protection, otherwise it will always be HTP 1.1.
So in these circumstances, you can move the tracking script to an external file and also put the order
I.D. in a data attribute so that it can be read from there.
And this is the content of the new JavaScript file.
We get the order element, read its data, contribute and provide it to the track function with some
filtering of course.
The similar case is with Google Analytics or Facebook pixel codes, which were asked to put on your
page if something like this.
Or something like this.
Both these codes set some global variables, then create a new script element that asynchronously loads
the tracking scripts and then send some data to them.
If you set the content security policy, these codes will not work.
But there are two ways to get around it.
First, you will get the similar experience.
If you move this code to an external script file and load it asynchronously, which means you need an
async attribute.
A script with asking attribute will not block.
The HTML parsing will be downloaded in parallel with other resources and also will run as soon as it's
downloaded.
And in the JavaScript file of course you have to remove the HTML comments and script tags.
So it's still asynchronous.
It will not slow down your page load but is now in an external file and content security policy can
be applied.
When it comes to Facebook pixel code, you also need to extract the actual script to an external file.
And then put it on your page with an async attribute as well, leaving the no script back as it was.
The second way to deal with these inline scripts is to actually leave them in line and allow them in
your policy by a hash generated from the script or by Anons.
Unfortunately, this is supported only by most recent browsers, but I will show you how it works anyway.
Providing hashes or nonsense is a great way to add some exceptions for scripts you would prefer to have
in line.
Unfortunately, the support for them was only added recently to some of the browsers and on the brothers
where it's not supported in line scripts allowed by nonce or hash will still remain blocked.
So this feature is not backwards compatible and would break your side on all their browsers.
Anyway, let's see how it works because this will be useful in, I hope, near future.
To allow a script by a hash, you need to generate the hash from it and put it in the policy, like
in this example.
This policy accepts only a script that produced the provided SHA256 hash in policy.
A hash needs to be base64 encoded.
So if the script is static like analytics code which will change very readily, you can just generate
the hash once and add the policy easy.
But remember about the policy when updating the analytics code.
For dynamic scripts.
The hashes need to be obtained before the page starts rendering because only until then you can send
HTP headers and content security policy is an HTP header.
So you need to generate the scripts and their hashes earlier than you put them on the page.
Otherwise, you will not be able to put them in your policy.
A browser will then generate by itself the SHA256 hash of the inline script and compare it with what
it received in the content security policy header.
Pay attention when placing the script.
Any leading or trailing whitespace inside the script tag will make the browser generate a different
hash than you did.
In this example, there's a line break before and after the actual script, and because of that, it
will fail.
Another method for explicitly allowing certain inline scripts is to use nonce.
This nonce is a number or string that is intended to be used only once.
If you set your policy like this.
Then the browser will only allowed the inline script with the provided nonce attribute.
But unlike hashes notes, these for the same script should be different with each request.
If you keep using the same or predictable analysis, anyone can nod them and use for their own malicious
scripts.
That's why you need to generate a cryptographically secure nonce on each request for each script.
This is how I will do it.
First generate a cryptographically secure random nonce.
The script contents doesn't matter.
We just generate the nonce for an analytic script because we know we have one.
Then we unbeknownst to our content security policy.
And finally, when we place the script on the side, we need to add Anons attributes to their script
tag and fill it with the nonce that we generated at the beginning.
Because content security policy is quite a complex thing to create.
You can first use a content security policy report only header, which will not apply any policy.
But we generate a report in which you can validate how it would have worked, especially which resources
would have been blocked by the policy.
What you need to do, however, is set up a beacon script that will be able to receive the reports as
by default they are generated but not sent anywhere.
A report is a Jason object with some details about which resource has been blocked on which page, on
which line, and because of which directive.
In the example, I will use a legacy deprecated method of reporting a report.
You are a directive simply because it's widely supported and because the now standard method with a
report to the directive is badly supported.
So to tell the brother where to send reports, I would use the report.
You are right.
They are active.
Would expect a path to a beckoned script.
And the simple script that would receive the report is this.
It will put in the B to B error look vile, anything that can be reported.
It's a very simple script which you might not exactly wants to use on your production server as is.
But there are other in your testing environment.
Unfortunately, the location of the script is public and it's widely open, which means it's prone to
being abused by malicious users.
But you get the idea how to obtain the report data.
This is what might have been written to the log file.
So what do we have in the report that blocked your entry?
Lets us know what type of resource has been blocked, whether it was an inline script or a particular
external script, for example.
The document you write tells us on which page the violation happened.
The violation directive lets us know which directive was violated.
For example, default source, script source, etc..
The original policy entry dose of the food policy that has been applied.
And the line number and column number entries tell us on which line and at which character a violation
happened.
The document you write and line number are two most useful values for spotting errors.
Unfortunately, from my testing, it seems like the reports are not too consistent across browsers.
For example, Chrome puts in very detailed information, including disposition and status code, which
are omitted by Firefox and Safari, whereas Safari is the least specific.
For example, it doesn't tell you the line number and column number.
Also all three point out the violated directive in a different way.
For the default source self policy the most restrictive one and then inline script.
In Firefox we get only a diluted directive entry with a directive name that has been violated, which
is what you might expect in Chrome.
We get a violated directive and an effective directive entry.
The second one with the most specific directive that exists in the specification.
Even if you didn't use it in your policy here, we only used the default source.
We don't have any script source elem directive.
And in Safari, we also get two entries with effective directive.
Also being more specific than your actual policy, but not the most specific.
And the belated directive in form of the directive name and its value different than in Firefox.
What's interesting, even if you want to start enforcing your policy by switching to content security
policy header.
Without this report only part, you can keep the report you or I directive to continue receiving reports.
While the policy is really applied.
Now you can spot potential cross-site scripting attacks using the document you and line number information.
For example, if you get a report saying the inline script was blocked on line 60 of contact BHP page
and on that page there is no in line script at line 60 that you know about.
You know that this might have been a cross-site scripting attempt.
The content security policy is a great idea and I'm a big fan of it.
However, it is pretty hard to get it right.
Not only because it's so powerful, but also because it's fairly new technology and is not yet widely
supported.
But if properly set and well-supported, it does a great job in preventing one of the most dangerous
vulnerabilities cross-site scripting.
When setting up your policy, make sure you test it thoroughly on different browsers, especially on
some older versions, if only you can.
Always check the compatibility of each feature you might want to use to ensure you don't rely on a poorly
supported part of the standard.
Start with the Content Security Policy Report only and monitor the reports to feel more confident.
If you would need to use the features which have not enough support, like allowing inline scripts by
hash or nonce, you can always do some testing now and just put the policy on the shelf until these
features have better browser support.